Documentation for interp

description
------------
Does 3d and 2d linear table interpolation. Tables can have grid that are 
equally or unequally spaced, and can be increasing or decreasing. However, the
index finding for the apropriate points in non-equally spaced tables is not
efficient (it just walks through the values). For values outside the grid 
range, the edge values of the table are used.

Note that more than half of the code here is just for tests.

interp2d and Makefile_2d contain an older 2d interpolation function.


compiling
----------

copy a makefile and adapt it to the system 
(e.g. _Makefile_macNU, _Makefile_frontera)

cp _Makefile_<sysname> Makefile
make


Options
--------
Parallel:
The Makefile contains the line 
Options += -fopenmp
Remove this line or comment it out to compile without OpenMP parallelisation.
Remember to set OMP_NUM_THREADS when running a parallel program to avoid 
taking up your whole system!

Warnings:
You can set the BOUNDSWARNINGS flag in the Makefile if you want the program to
print a warning any time you need to extrapolate to get a value.

DEBUG:
Set this flag if you want an overview of the (intermediate) values used in each
interpolation that is done. DEBUG2 means printing the grid spacing that is 
initially set.
 

tests
------
make test
./interp_test

(with or without OpenMP) makes and runs a simple executable for the 
interpolation program. This runs a battery of test cases: grids are chosen, and
a table is generated using a function linear in all three arguments (for two 
functions), and this is interpolated on sets of test values that include all 
combinations of edge and center options. The outcome is compared to the result
of calculating the same linear function on the same test values, or the grid
edge values as applicable. Small differences might arise due to floating point 
errors. To pass the test, all values must agree to a relative difference of 
1e-5. (Or an absolute difference of this size if one of the values is zero.)

In the tests, different grids are used: increasing/decreasing and equal/unequal
spacing, in all combinations of the different table edges. This gives 64 tests
on 2 functions for interpolate_3d and 16 tests on 2 functions for 
interpolate_2d. The same tests are also run on piecewise linear functions to
check that the interpolation is being done from the right values. (In a linear
function, this algorithm will give a correct result when interpolating a value
from any 2^dimensions points, even if it's actually extrapolation.)




